sql-statements: add SHOW STATS_HEALTHY (#3388)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-show-stats-healthy.md

---
title: SHOW STATS_HEALTHY
summary: An overview of the usage of SHOW STATS_HEALTHY for TiDB database.
---

# SHOW STATS_HEALTHY

The `SHOW STATS_HEALTHY` statement shows an estimation of how accurate statistics are believed to be. Tables with a low percentage health may generate sub-optimal query execution plans.

> The health of a table can be improved by running the `ANALYZE` table command. `ANALYZE` will run automatically when the health drops below the [`tidb_auto_analyze_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_ratio) threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The health of a table can be improved by running the `ANALYZE` table command. `ANALYZE` runs automatically when the health drops below the [`tidb_auto_analyze_ratio`](/system-variables.md#tidb_auto_analyze_ratio) threshold.
```

![ShowTargetFilterable](/media/sqlgram/ShowTargetFilterable.png)

**ShowLikeOrWhereOpt**

![ShowLikeOrWhereOpt](/media/sqlgram/ShowLikeOrWhereOpt.png)

## Examples

Load example data and run `ANALYZE`:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE t1 (
 id INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY auto_increment,
 b INT NOT NULL,
 pad VARBINARY(255),
 INDEX(b)
);

INSERT INTO t1 SELECT NULL, FLOOR(RAND()*1000), RANDOM_BYTES(255) FROM dual;
INSERT INTO t1 SELECT NULL, FLOOR(RAND()*1000), RANDOM_BYTES(255) FROM t1 a JOIN t1 b JOIN t1 c LIMIT 100000;
INSERT INTO t1 SELECT NULL, FLOOR(RAND()*1000), RANDOM_BYTES(255) FROM t1 a JOIN t1 b JOIN t1 c LIMIT 100000;
INSERT INTO t1 SELECT NULL, FLOOR(RAND()*1000), RANDOM_BYTES(255) FROM t1 a JOIN t1 b JOIN t1 c LIMIT 100000;
INSERT INTO t1 SELECT NULL, FLOOR(RAND()*1000), RANDOM_BYTES(255) FROM t1 a JOIN t1 b JOIN t1 c LIMIT 100000;
INSERT INTO t1 SELECT NULL, FLOOR(RAND()*1000), RANDOM_BYTES(255) FROM t1 a JOIN t1 b JOIN t1 c LIMIT 100000;
INSERT INTO t1 SELECT NULL, FLOOR(RAND()*1000), RANDOM_BYTES(255) FROM t1 a JOIN t1 b JOIN t1 c LIMIT 100000;
SELECT SLEEP(1);
ANALYZE TABLE t1;
SHOW STATS_HEALTHY; # should be 100% healthy
```

```sql

> ..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
...
```
